#summary A Java-based medical image viewer and manipulation tool.

=Overview=
The CDSC/MII imageViewer is a Java-based medical image viewing application that is written to be a modular image manipulation and visualization platform that can be executed for any computer running an instance of the Java Virtual Machine. The application has networking capabilities that can be tied to an [http://www.mii.ucla.edu/imageserver/ ImageServer] network to pull images from a local area network or an enterprise picture archiving and communication system (PACS). ImageViewer also has built-in support for the caBIG Annotation Image Markup project, the RSNA MIRC service, and implementation of active contours and front propagation segmentation tools.

The ImageViewer application can be adapted as a testbed for new image processing algorithms as well as integrated into existing Java applications as a robust, integrated image viewer tool. Documentation is provided on how to write a new plugin for the application or how to import project files into an existing application.

=Features=
  * Basic image manipulation functionality (window/level, zoom, rotation)
  * Advanced layout capabilities (multiple tabs, custom layouts 2x2, 2x4 and side-by-side tabs)
  * Support for common medical imaging formats (DICOM, Analyze 7.5, raw images, and visual human dataset (VHD) images)
  * Several built-in 2D segmentation algorithms: geodesic active contours, front propagation
  * Integrated support for [http://www.mii.ucla.edu/imageserver/ ImageServer]

=Requirements=
  * Java Virtual Machine Standard Edition 1.6+
  * Minimum 256 MB RAM, 512 MB recommended

=Download=
Two methods for obtaining and running the ImageViewer code exists.

==Run from Precompiled Archive=
Download the *[http://cdsc-image-processing-pipeline.googlecode.com/files/imageViewer-2.1.zip ImageViewer distribution package]*.

Once downloaded, to start the application, execute the following command:

{{{java -Xms256m -Xmx1024m -jar imageviewer.jar -nonet}}}

You may also run the application with the {{{-help}}} trigger to list other arguments that you may specify at command line.

==Compile from Source Code==
To obtain the latest version of imageViewer, check out the source files from the project SVN repository.

{{{
svn checkout http://cdsc-image-processing-pipeline.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ cdsc-image-processing-pipeline-read-only
}}}

The checked out project can be imported into Eclipse. The main method is located in {{{imageviewer.system.ImageViewerClient}}}.

You may also compile the code with the included {{{build.xml}}} file using {{{ant}}}. Make sure you properly configure your environment by specifying your {{{JAVA_HOME}}} variable (i.e., path to your Java Virtual Machine).